My reading notes.. Not alot of coding on this stuff this week..

This week I got through the chapter on transforms.

My questions is:  Can CSS transforms and transitions apply to jpeg or webp images or only to vector graphic elements?

I am excited to add some of the transforms to my sandbox.  I also plan to play around with the spinning circles demoed in our office hours session.

Seems like rotate does a ton of work for us.  I have coded graphical rotations using math formulas in Python (I think it was Cosine) and it was numerous lines of code

For sure want to play with transform-origin and circles.  Will do that next week.

Skipped the IE support sections...

I want to test this out on some of my sandbox elements and pics:

transition: transform 0.2s ease-out 50ms;


This would be cool with text and border properties:

transition-property: transform, color;
transition-duration: 0.2s;
transition-timing-function: ease-out;
transition-delay: 50ms;

keyframe animations look complicated.

Love this pixel manipulation from color to B/W... Could be fun experimenting with different factors to change the colors..
function manipulateImage() {
for (var i = 0; i < imageData.data.length; i += 4) {
red = imageData.data[i];
green = imageData.data[i + 1];
blue = imageData.data[i + 2];
grayscale = red * 0.3 + green * 0.59 + blue * 0.11;
}

I bet that array can be huge with hi-rez images.

Followed the SVG vs Canvas speed comparison... Visually undetectable.

Now I know where the student got the drag n drop cat/mouse code!  Will play with that if time..








