Chap 9: The Window Object

Still don't know much about Node.js (maybe it is a way to code Javascript for running on non browser environments?)

Now I know why it is not encouraged to use any of the interrupt dialogues.  Sounds like best practice to avoid them.

 I plan to learn about the window object and what methods are under window that we take for granted becuause we do not reference
 window when we call them...

 I noticed the replace() method is the one that tics me off when a retailer blocks the use of the back navigation to leaave
a page that they may want you to remain on.

this will be useful:
const cookies = document.cookie.split("; ");
for (crumb of cookies){
const [key,value] = crumb.split("=");
console.log(`The value of ${key} is ${value}`);
}

played around with document.cookie from the firefox inspector console.. nice test to see what different sites store in your browser.



Tried this on my portfolio page console and only got the alert after page refresh
window.setTimeout( () => alert("Time's Up!"), 3000);

Made the rotating red square animation... both JS versions and the CSS version..

Chap 14 HTML5 API'

the data- construct is well explained and used by the Wes Bos drumkit example.  As a matter of info, I plan to fashion my final project on the drum-kit project however
I may try to use JSON and LocalStorage to store the sounds and keycodes as opposed to defining the keys and sounds in the HTML.


Love the Geo stuff...  Wrote this snippet and added a "latlong" div below the spinning cube.

navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(youAreHere);
function youAreHere(position) {
   console.log(`Latitude: ${position.coords.latitude}, Longitude: ${position.coords.longitude}`)
  document.getElementById("latlong").innerHTML = `Latitude: ${position.coords.latitude}, Longitude: ${position.coords.longitude}`;
}

Too bad the lat/long is the lat/long of my ISP 35 miles away!  Mobile device likely has a way to pull the GPS coordinates from the device.

played with the notification scripts.. My browser blocked the dialogue however the console indicated a Promise state pending.





















